Welcome back.
We're going to talk about some advanced objects concepts.
Now as I said with both arrays and functions these are advanced concepts you're probably not going to
just get it 100 percent the first time around but use these videos as a reference to come back as you
progress through your career.
Now in this video I'm going to talk about three things that are important with objects.
We're going to talk about reference type.
We're going to talk about context.
And finally we're going to talk about instantiation
so let's get started with the first one reference to what I mean when I say reference type what I wanted
to see if you can guess what's going to happen when I do.
Array equals array.
What do you think the answer is going to be.
Let's see.
Hmm interesting OK.
What if I do array one he calls it one interesting OK.
One more question.
What about something like this.
How object.
He calls the value of 10
and we'll say object 2 equals object 1 and we'll finally a variable object 3 equals value 10.
So looking at these and I'm actually going to copy it on here so you can see it as well.
Looking at this.
What happens if I do object one equals object 2.
What do you think will happen.
True.
OK.
That makes sense.
I mean object to is object 1.
But what if I do object one he calls object three.
Here I get false.
But why is that we have value 10 values and they're both the same thing.
Right.
Let's pick something else.
What if I do object one value.
Equals 15 OK.
And now I do object to dark valley
it equals 15.
But if I do object 3 de-value I get 10 well how was confusing grade.
Let's look at what's actually going on.
And this is the first topic we're talking about which is reference type.
Let's look at a diagram.
Objects are what's called the reference types and Javascript up at this point.
All the other javascript types that we've learned including numbers know we have
undefined booleans strings even symbols they're all defined by the programming language.
So Javascript the person who wrote javascript and ECMAScript the standard says these are primitive types.
We tell you what they are now a reference type which is a non primitive type are not defined by the
programming languages.
What that means is that they're created by the programmer.
So let's look over here as an example.
When I say variable.
Number one equals one.
Javascript knows what one is.
It's a number and it's a primitive type.
It's always the same thing.
It's immutable every time it uses a one.
That's the same one that javascript knows about.
When I do variable number two it's using the same number one that javascript knows about.
However when we created object Twan equals value 10 in object to equals object when an object 3 calls
of value 10 well those were created by the programmer.
There are reference types.
So what we said was I want object Twan create a new object will say this box over here this filing cabinet
and in it put value 10 into this box object to says I want you to just reference and that's where the
word comes from.
Reference object 1 saying hey I want whatever's inside this box.
When object 3 gets created it's a new object because we have the new brackets and it's saying put value
10 in this box.
Essentially what we're doing is saying when we create a variable object one we're storing just a reference
to an address to where we're storing the value 10 which is Box 1.
So we're saying object 1.
I'm just letting you know that this is the address of all the content that you want and that's mbox
1 object to is saying I want whatever is an object 1.
And we look an object Twan an object Twan just has the information of box 1.
So it references that an object 3 creates a new object.
So it's saying I'm going to put my contents in Box 3 and I'm just going to have the address of the box
saying box 3 that's right over here.
So going back to our example
this makes sense when we change object one value to 15.
We change the contents of box 1.
So when we do object to Daube value which is referencing the same box as object 1 that's 15 but object
3 Dog value doesn't change because that's that's interested in a completely different box it's box 3
and going back to the first example.
Arrays.
Well as I mentioned in previous videos arrays are just objects that ended the day.
So when you create an array it's the same thing creating a box a data structure.
And this is creating a second data structure right.
So that is a reference type a very important concept but I think I think you get it right.
Let's get to the next one.
This gets a little trickier.
This one's called context and context gets confused a lot with scope.
If you remember we said that scope is created when it sees curly brackets right.
We said that if we create a function as soon as we create that function there is a new scope that's
created.
So we can have let a equals a and that lives within this universe.
It doesn't know anything about the root scope which is over here.
So if I do console log AA Well it's not going to work.
Oh and we need to actually assign something and we need to name it's a larger say B.
So if I do this well console or log they will just return reference error because it doesn't exist.
So that's scope.
Now how is context different context tells you where we are within the object.
Let me explain.
If we say console doll log this.
Well you see I get some highlighting and this is the first time we're seeing this and it's a special
word in javascript.
Probably the most confusing word that a lot of people have trouble and even people that I've been in
the industry for years still have a difficult time with this but let's see what it is.
This is as you can see the window object.
So just to double check if I do console or log this equals window I get true.
And I can access this dot alert.
So what this means is what is the object environment that we're in right now the best way to think about
it is what is to the left of the dot.
So right now I'm able to do alert because I'm inside the window object.
So doing window or doing this is the same thing.
Now why is that important.
Well when we get to instantiation I'll show you why it is but it's a very important concept that you'll
see again and again.
But remember this just refers to what object it's inside of two more example to demonstrate this one
is if I do function a Withem function a will say console dog log
this.
So if I call it what do you think happens Lucy still the window object this still refers to the function.
And if you remember that's because I said it has to be what object we're inside of right now.
Technically.
I can go window hey and run the function.
So to the left of the dot Well that's the window in order to create a new value for this.
You have to do something like this.
Object a function a.
Now if I do function
and within here I do a console log.
This well in that case if I copy this and run object for a
while.
Now this is the object which is object for.
So why is that important to us.
Well first of all you'll see it and other codebase is so it's good to know.
But it's really important when we do instantiation instantiation is when you make a copy of an object
and reuse the code.
Imagine you're building a big multiplayer game online.
And this game's going to have many many players you can have wizards you can have trolls warlocks elves.
Now if you had to create an object for every single player that's a lot of repeated code that's a lot
of hassle and that's a lot of your time and it's not very efficient to solve that.
You can do something called instantiation.
You're making instances or multiple copies of an object.
So let me show you how we do instantiation in javascript again.
This is going to look a little bit weird at first just like for loops did just like functions did at
the beginning but it's just the syntax and you'll get used to it.
So let's say we have a player class.
Now you see the new syntax already and I capitalize a class.
Now think of a class as something that I want to make a copy of.
If I ever want to make a copy of an object it's a good idea to do something like this so that well you'll
see how easy it is to copy this.
Now so we do.
Class player and within here will say constructor
and I know this looks weird but again is just syntax.
Let's give it to this player can have a name and a type and within the constructor this name he calls
name and this type he calls
was just happened here constructor.
When you create a class A player class says.
Every time I'm making a copy of a player the first thing that gets run is the constructor function and
this constructor function is going to create these properties on the player object so name and a type.
And now I can create anything that I want for the player.
Let's say we want to create a method such as introduce that console logs
with tactics Hi I am.
And again will you remember this Sendak's template rings this done name I'm a this type.
So now I'm saying this class any player that I create will always be able to introduce himself and they'll
also have this name and this type.
And the reason we use this here is that when we create a player we can access the name and type property.
I'll show you later on how that works.
But this is just a syntax you're going to get used to in order to access the player and make copies
of it.
You'll have to run a constructor which is all the properties and methods that you want the player to
have.
You can also create methods that players can have and any time you want to access a property within
the constructor will use this name for want to use introduce I'll have to do this.
Introduce.
OK so we have a player but when we're building our multiplayer game we want to now copy this but add
onto it.
Let's say we have what we want to create a wizard player a player that's a wizard.
In that case when we do class wizard again capital letter extends and again is just the javascript keyboard
player.
So what is this saying I'm saying I want wizard to extend whatever a player has.
So I want to add on top of whatever player has again because it's a class will have to do a constructor.
And this wizard is going to accept Knabe and type and within here this is the tricky part.
Any time we extend something we need to also call the constructor function of the player.
We have to do something called super with the properties that we want to pass to the constructor.
In this case name and type I know this is confusing is just something you have to do whenever you extend
a class.
You want to use Soopers so that you essentially have access to these OK.
So let's say that with the wizard We also want to have a play function and the play function was just
a console log.
We I'm a this type and now that we have our wizard What's the power what's the reason that we just did
this.
Now we can do this instead of constantly creating players and then saying that they have their wizards
and they can play.
Now I can say wizard 1 equals new wizard and we'll call the first wizard again.
We get name and type so we'll say Shelly and she'll be a healer.
And if I want to create a new wizard I'll just say wizard 2 equals new wizard Sean and he is dark magic.
There was a lot of new syntax so let's go through it and make sure we understand everything as we've
learn let's use console log to really understand what we're doing.
I'm going to add a console log right of the top over here.
I will say this.
What is this.
I'm going to save and actually I'm going to copy this into the console let's copy it.
And see what the console log gives us.
We see that we get Wizard.
All right.
Let's go through everything here.
I say we have a class player then a class wizard that extends player.
And then we have two variables that we created wizard 1 and Wizard 2.
Now the program's going to see the new keyword and any time it sees a new key word it says oh we're
creating a new wizard and this wizard is going to have two parameters Shelli and healer.
So it's going to go to the wizard class again because it has this new word.
He goes to the wizard class and says a wizard.
I want you to extend player.
So it's going to go to the constructor and it's going to see this super And what this does is it takes
us up to the constructor of the player.
And Iran's this and now it attaches this as the wizard.
And then it introduces the new function and then adds the play function.
Now if I go to wizard 1 and I say play I get we I'm a healer because Shelly's a healer.
But I also have access to wizard 1 dog introduce Hi I am Shelly I'm a healer and we also have access
to wizard to I have to run this again.
Let's run this again.
And I don't think I copied the second wizard last time.
So now I have wizard to introduce.
Hi I'm Sean.
Um I'm a dark magic.
That sentence doesn't make sense Sean but that's OK for now.
Let's just try something if I do.
Console log.
Here and we'll just say wizard
and here will say player.
Just so we can distinguish between them.
And I'm only going to copy the first wizard so that we don't get two of these running again because
we're creating two wizards we're going to have this run twice but just for our sanity We'll run.
Shelly So I'm going to refresh and add here I forgot to add a comma
and let's refresh and I get our Knerr reference error must call super constructor and derived class
before accessing this.
What that's saying is that in order for me to access this and get this type I have to call super which
runs a constructor function and player.
So that's what super is doing.
It sounds kind of weird but it just something that you need just get up at the bottom after we call
super and now it should work.
Let's see
I get the first player wizard.
So we call super as soon as we say new wizard Shelli healer.
I go to the wizard accent's player I run the constructor function which says super hey run the constructor
function and the player and I run that.
And that's why we log console log player first and then we go to console dialog wizard and then run
the rest of the class.
Very cool.
Now just to show you something.
This is actually new syntax that you'll see and react and it was part of ESX.
But back in the day this is how we used to do it the exact same code I have up there
is right here.
It's called classical inheritance and it doesn't look too too bad but you see that there's prototype
which it's another thing that you'll see in javascript and to be honest with you you shouldn't really
use it.
It doesn't look very nice.
And you see that we have to a play to both wizard wand and Wizard 2 and it just doesn't look as nice
as this.
And once you get used to everything.
It's not too bad.
All we're saying is as soon as we say class who say hey we're probably going to make a copy of this
object.
So we want to make copies of player we want to make copies of wizard and that's called instantiation.
When I do the new keyword I say make an instance of wizard and wizard uses some functionality from the
player and adds its own little play function as well.
Holy moly that was a lot like I said this is something that you'll have to come back to and you won't
get it right away.
It's really really hard to fully understand the topic without actually having to use it in real life.
Just keep this in mind every time you hear somebody talk about reference type or contacts or even scope
or instantiating something.
Well these are the things that they're talking about.
Objects are really really complicated.
They're really hard.
But with that it gives us a lot of power.
So with that good luck with the exercises I'll see in the next one but by.